# Enterprise Java

## 1.1 Enterprise Development

Enterprise development (ED) is any application, set of applications, utility, set of utilities, or systems and/or infrastructure developed `for use by a particular company, corporation, or collection of users`.

ED is different from other forms of development

- ED applications are able to make better assumptions
- ED applications are typically internal.
- ED users are typically close by.
- ED applications are typically shorter-cycled.
- ED applications often get less QA time.
- ED applications cannot assume end-user responsibility.
- ED applications must be more user reactive.
- ED applications typically require some degree of expert administration.
- ED applications must work within the existing architecture.

## THREE ZEROES

IT administrators and data-center directors often speak of five-nines when talking about server availability; in that, they mean that the servers (and the data they serve to the enterprise) are up and running 99.999 percent of the time. Computed out, that means those servers are down a total of about five minutes per year.

A new standard for enterprise software devel- opers: three zeroes.

### Zero Development

I use it to refer to reusable code and/or components; it means that it costs nothing to make changes or add features to software or systems, either as upgrades to existing systems, as feature requests by users, or as new code for new systems, either as upgrades to existing systems, as fea- ture requests by users, or as new code for new systems. By this, I mean that it costs developers nothing, not that no time is spent.

Zero development, by its definition, is an unattainable goal; developing software with- out incurring any development costs is a contradiction in terms. The closer we can approach that goal, however, the lower development costs will be, and the less time we have to spend on development of components that could otherwise be reused. Consequently, we can spend more time on what our users want. And that, above all else, is what we’re here for.

### Zero Deployment

Software is not only developed, it must be deployed. This is the act of installing the software on the target system, whether it is a stand-alone data-center server machine, or end-user machines all across the organization. Deployment to a centralized server is far less costly than deployment to end users systems. However, if the software in question is for end users, that deployment would seem to be inherently necessary and unavoidable.

In fact, the attempt to avoid this cost is the entire driving force behind the thin cli- ent architecture, where a web browser is used to view HTML pages or interact with Java applets as their contact with the system. Because HTML is loaded from a central HTTP server, and stores nothing on the end-users’ systems, deploying a new version of an appli- cation to the organization merely requires modification of the HTML pages or Java applet code on the server.

Part of the reason for this move toward zero deployment approaches is the rec- ognition of some simple facts:

- Users don’t want to install software themselves.
- Software systems aren’t completely independent anymore.
  - In the case of Java, the Java interpreter and environment (the JRE) must be installed on the end-user’s system in order to run Java code. What’s worse, these collateral deployment costs aren’t one-time costs; each time an upgrade or patch is made available, it must be installed on the end-user’s machine all over again.
- It takes time to push these developments out.

### Zero administration

Zero administration means making the applications easier to administer by pro- viding clear GUIs instead of cryptic text files, by allowing configuration of the appli- cation to occur while it is running instead of requiring the application to be taken down and restarted, or by allowing system administrators to configure the application from any machine throughout the corporation, with security restrictions still in place.
It also means that system administrators can be assured that, in the event of a failure of an application, they will be notified.
Lastly, zero administration means having, at their fingertips, statistics regarding the application’s performance, load on the current machine, and/or resources consumed.
